sphinx/source/general-info/course-details.rst, before:

Course details
==============

Course schedule
---------------

**Summer Semester 2021**

- Class sessions

  - Wednesdays at 14:00 CET (21.04.2021 - 07.07.2021), zoom link available from instructors

- Semester breaks

  - no scheduled breaks so far

Instructors
-----------

**Prof. Lars Ruepke**

- Email: lruepke@geomar.de
- `Institute webpage <https://www.geomar.de/en/research/fb4/fb4-muhs/research-topics/modelings>`_

**Dr. Zhikui Guo**

- Email: zguo@geomar.de


Course website
---------------

- Public site : https://lruepke.github.io/FEM_lecture/
- University site: https://lms.uni-kiel.de/url/RepositoryEntry/4012113942

Further readings
----------------

There are many good online resources on numerical modeling in marine geosciences:

- The CIG website `<https://geodynamics.org>`_
- Website of the community code ASPECT  `<https://aspect.geodynamics.org>`_
- Marc Spiegelmann's script on numerical methods  `<https://earth.usc.edu/~becker/teaching/557/reading/spiegelman_mmm.pdf>`_ 


There are also a number of books that are really helpful:

- Guy Simpson's book on FE with Matlab `<https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/9781119248644>`_
- Hughes classic book on FEM `<https://books.google.de/books/about/The_Finite_Element_Method.html?id=yarmSc7ULRsC&redir_esc=y>`_
- Reddy and Gartling's book `<https://books.google.de/books?id=sv0VKLL5lWUC&printsec=frontcover#v=onepage&q&f=false>`_ 

Credits
-------

    * Some of the material on finite differences are based on material that **Boris Kaus** initially developed for a modeling workshop at Oslo University.
    * Special thanks also to **Ria Fischer**, who helped with a previous version of this lecture.

Commit message:

updates on lecture 2 and references

sphinx/source/general-info/course-details.rst, after:

Course details
==============

Course schedule
---------------

**Summer Semester 2021**

- Class sessions

  - Wednesdays at 14:00 CET (21.04.2021 - 07.07.2021), zoom link available from instructors

- Semester breaks

  - no scheduled breaks so far

Instructors
-----------

**Prof. Lars Ruepke**

- Email: lruepke@geomar.de
- `Institute webpage <https://www.geomar.de/en/research/fb4/fb4-muhs/research-topics/modelings>`_

**Dr. Zhikui Guo**

- Email: zguo@geomar.de


Course website
---------------

- Public site : https://lruepke.github.io/FEM_lecture/
- University site: https://lms.uni-kiel.de/url/RepositoryEntry/4012113942

Further readings
----------------

There are many good online resources on numerical modeling in marine geosciences:

- The CIG website `<https://geodynamics.org>`_
- Website of the community code ASPECT  `<https://aspect.geodynamics.org>`_
- Marc Spiegelmann's script on numerical methods  `<https://earth.usc.edu/~becker/teaching/557/reading/spiegelman_mmm.pdf>`_ 


There are also a number of books that are really helpful:

- Guy Simpson's book on FE with Matlab :cite:`Simpson2017`
- Hughes classic book on FEM :cite:`Hughes2000`
- Reddy and Gartling's book :cite:`reddy2010` 

Credits
-------

    * Some of the material on finite differences are based on material that **Boris Kaus** initially developed for a modeling workshop at Oslo University.
    * Special thanks also to **Ria Fischer**, who helped with a previous version of this lecture.
    * Thanks also to **Prof. Keith A. Woodbury** of The University of Alabama for letting us use his lecture notes on Weighted Residuals.
